Topics
We expect to cover (at least) the following topics during the course:Ensuring CorrectnessTestingReasoning about Functional ProgramsReasoning about Imperative ProgramsDebuggingClient and Server ApplicationsDesign PatternsTextbookThere is no required textbook for the course. However, students may find
  the articles linked on theResourcespage useful
  to read at some point during the course.Additionally, many students, early in their CS careers, find the following
  book helpful (although it will not be referenced much if at all during the
  course):The Pragmatic Programmerby Andrew Hunt and David
      Thomas, 20th anniversary (2nd) edition, Addison-Wesley, 2020.LecturesLecture will be given in person, at the location and time shown on the
  time schedule. The lecture will be recorded for the benefit of students who
  are sick or otherwise unable to attend.SectionsEach week includes a TA-led quiz section. These will not be recorded, but
  the printed material used will be posted on theTopicspage.Each quiz section will be focused on preparation for the next homework
  assignment. A substantial portion of the time will be spent on practice
  problems similar to those appearing in that homework. It is very important that
  students take the time to work through the practice problems before attempting
  the homework to make sure they understand how to solve them.Past experience indicates that section attendance is extremely important for
  being successful in the course. For that reason,participation in
    sectionis expected. Those who are sick or otherwise unable to attend can
  complete the practice problems on their own and submit their solutions in
  Gradescope by11pm on Thursday. (If a student is completely unavailable
  on the day of a quiz section, they can contact the instructors or their section
  TA to make special arrangements.)If students do not attend section, do not submit a solution to the worksheet
  in Gradescope, and do not make special arrangements to submit later, then the
  staff will interpret that as a statement that the student is confident they can
  complete the homework on their own without any help from TAs. In particular,
  that they do not need one-on-one help in office hours. As a result, TAs will
  allocate their extremely limited time in office hours to students who do attend
  section or submit the worksheet on Gradescope. (Of course, students who skip
  section can still ask questions on the message board.)HomeworkHomework assignments will generally be postedlate Thursday evening,
  so that students can start the assignment on Friday. As noted above, Thursdays
  are intended to be used for working on the section worksheet and asking questions
  to clarify any issues that were unclear. Official section solutions will be
  generally released by mid-Friday.Assignments can require either solutions in the form of written answers,
  typed code, or both. Generally, the amount of code required will increase as the
  course progresses.Past experience tells us that some of the homework assignments in this
  course can be verytime consumingfor some students. Students should
  plan to have at least 8 hours available per week to work on assignments, with
  the expectation that some assignments could require even more time depending on
  the student's background.Students are expected tocompleteall homework assignments. Students
  who receive no (or essentially no) credit formultipleassignments risk
  failing. Outside of those circumstances, however, failing the course ishighly unusual.Occasionally, we will discover errors in an assignment after it is posted
  (typically, just small typos). We will maintain a log on the website with all
  changes made to the assignment. If (and only if) we believe there is potential
  for students to submit correct solutions to the earlier version, we will also
  email all students about the change. In particular, we will not send email if
  the earlier version is obviously nonsensical. (Most typos fall into this
  category.)ExamsThe course will have no exams. 🎉Getting HelpStudents can ask questions at any time on the message board. During normal
  working hours, they should receive a response within a fairly short period of
  time (almost always under an hour).Each member of the course staff will have at least one office hour every
  week, where students can get one-on-one help. See the Weekly Schedule on theCalendarpage for office hours times and locations.Note, however, that office hours are themost limited resourceavailable to students — those held near the due date of assignments are
  almost always oversubscribed — so asking questions on the message board
  should always be preferred.As noted above, office hours will be reserved for students who either
  attended section or submitted a solution to the section worksheet in Gradescope
  the prior Thursday. Those who skip section can still ask questions on the
  message board, but one-on-one help in office hours is reserved for students who
  worked on the section problems as expected.Homework MechanicsSubmissionAll work will be turned in via Gradescope. For each assignment, you will turn
  in your written work and code separately.You will turn in your written work to the "HW <name> Written" assignment
  on Gradescope. Make sure that anyhandwritten work is legible(and dark
  enough) for us to read. If the graders cannot read your solution, theycannot give you points. Also, when you turn in your written HW to
  Gradescope, pleasematch each HW problem to where you did your work. If
  you do not do this, or your work is hard to read, you may receive apoint
  deduction.You will turn in your code to the "HW <name> Code" assignment on
  Gradescope. You only need to submit thefinal versionof each of the
  files you worked on in the assignment.In the HW instructions, for each coding problem, we will identify which
  files you will need to upload to Gradescope. It is crucial that you only
  upload the files that we instruct you to, or else you may not pass the
  autograder. For example, if HW Example Problem 30 says to upload fileexample.tsand Problem 60 says to uploadfun.ts, you
  shouldonlyuploadexample.tsandfun.tsto
  Gradescope. You shouldnotputexample.tsandfun.tsinto a folder, and then upload the folder to Gradescope, as
  this will cause you to fail the autograder. The autograder will verify that you
  have submitted the correct files, it is your responsibility to check the
  autograder output.Be sure to look for anyerror messagesfrom the autograder when you
  submit, and be sure that you receivedall of the auto-graded points. If
  you did not, you can examine the error messages, identify the problem, and then
  re-submit a corrected solution. Make sure youleave enough timeto fix any
  errors that identified by the autograder. Try to avoid submitting for the first
  time during the last few minutes before the assignment is due because that will
  not leave you enough time to fix any problems you encounter.RegradesIf grading mistakes occur, students are encouraged to bring them to the
  attention of the course staff and see that they are corrected. They can do so
  by requesting a regrade in Gradescope, with the following caveats:We will only entertain regrade requests forone weekafter the
      grades are initially are posted. In particular, students searching for extra
      points late in the quarter by requesting regrades of problems from early
      assignments will be ignored.While regrades can (and should) be used to fix mistakes where a correct
      solution is mistakenly marked incorrect, they cannot (and should not) be used
      to request changes to amounts of points deducted for errors. Deductions are
      applied consistently to all students. We will not give one student a smaller
      deduction than others who made the same (or very similar) mistakes, so do not
      ask us to do so.If students wish to fix an inconsistency between the grading of two
      assignments that had similar answers,both studentsmust request a
      regrade. That way, the staff can determine whether the appropriate correction
      is to add points to the student with the lower score or remove them from the
      student with the higher score. If only the student who lost points requests a
      regrade, it will be ignored.For the final assignment, the staff will not regrade individual parts.
      Students can request a regrade for the entire assignment, and their points
      may go upor downas a result.PoliciesInclusivenessStudents should expect and demand to be treated with respect by their
  classmates and the course staff. All students belong here, and the staff is
  here to help them learn and enjoy a challenging course. If any incident occurs
  that challenges this commitment to a supportive and inclusive environment,
  students should let the staff know so the issue can be addressed. You can
  use theanonymous feedback toolif you would like to tell us something anonymously.Late PolicyHomework assignments are designed to be completed by the due dates listed.
  Situations may arise, however, where students are unable to complete the
  assignment by those dates. For that reason, the staff will allow students to
  submit each assignments24 hours latewith no penalty.Late work not meeting this condition (i.e., more than 24 hours late on one
  assignment) will only be accepted after a discussion with course instructor.
  There is no need to talk to the instructor unless more than one late day is
  needed on an individual assignment. Students do not need to take any special
  action when submitting an assignment late.In addition, please note that:The 24 hour grace period is intended to cover any emergencies that arise.
      We do not grant extra late days beyond the grace period, just for
      emergencies — those grace period is intended to cover most emergencies.Finishing an assignment 24 hours late usually puts the studentbehind
        schedulefor the next assignment. Avoid the snowball effect!The day after the assignment is due is intended to be focused on the
      section component of the next assignment. If a student is unable to fully
      concentrate on quiz section, then they go into the next assignment at a
      disadvantage. Hence, it is always to the student's benefit to finish each
      assignment on time.CollaborationStudents are allowed to discuss homework problems with others, but they must
  write or type their solutionindividually, without assistance.Student solutions arenot group work. Students can work together to
  solve problems, but then, they must leave the group, takingno written or
  electronic recordsof group work with them; wait at least20
  minutes; and then write up / code up their solution on their own,
  unassisted. Students who initially solve problems with a group, must list the
  other group members as "collaborators" in the written part of their
  solution.This policy clearly precludes copying code off of the Internet. Hence,
  students should not consult the Internet for problems or key-phrases. This
  includes Google, Stack Overflow, reddit, and any other website. However,
  students may consult the internet for ideas, definitions, and understanding
  general concepts.Each student should keep anything they plan to submit as a solutioncompletely private.Under no circumstancesshould they give a
  copy of their code or written work to another student, as that would clearly
  violate the rules listed above.AI AssistanceAI tools such asGitHub CopilotorChatGPTare clearlynot
  allowedunder the policy described above. While using Copilot is entirely
  reasonable on personal projects, it must beturned offwhen completing
  the assignments in this course.Such tools have essentially memorized all the code on the Internet. Asking
  the tool to produce code from its memory is no different, as far as we are
  concerned, from searching for the code and then copying it yourself. We
  explicitly disallow the latter, so the former is also disallowed.On the other hand, students are allowed to look at outside resources in
  order to build up their understanding and then use their understanding to solve
  the problem. It isunderstandingthat will get students a job. (No one
  will pay someone just to type prompts into ChatGPT. They can do that
  themselves!) Hence, any technique that short circuits the process of building
  up understanding is adverse to a student's long-term career goals, and so we
  disallow it.Academic IntegrityAs noted above, the staff expects each student to write their own solutions,
  independently. Attempting to misrepresent another student's solution as their
  own would be unfair to the other students in the course and constitute academic
  misconduct in violation of theAllen School policy.
  Any such violation will be reported to University, and the instructor will
  make every attempt to ensure the harshest allowable penalty.Note that, in cases where one student copies the solution of another,both studentshave violated the policy and both will be disciplined.
  Again, all students should keep their solutions private.If a student is ever unclear about whether their discussions with other
  students went over the line, they should (a) ask and (b) describe their
  collaboration clearly on their assignment. If they do, the worst that will
  happen is losing some points. That is much better than the alternative.AccommodationsPlease refer to university policies regardingdisability accommodationsandreligious
    accommodations.GradingHomework GradingStudents are responsible for making sure that they submit solutions to the
  final version of the problems posted on the website. (As noted above, the
  initially posted versions of assignments sometimes contain errors.) Students
  should confirm that they have solved the final version by consulting thechange logon the website before submitting their solutions.Graders will identify incorrect answers in submitted solutions and deduct
  points commensurate with the severity of the errors made. They will aim to
  deduct points consistently across all assignments making the same or similar
  errors.In addition, the course has the following policies:Graders will ignore requests to change theamount of points
        deducted. These amounts, as long as they are applied consistently, are
      entirely at the discretion of the course staff.Graders will ignorelegalistic argumentsabout why incorrect
      solutions should be accepted under an alternative reading of the problem
      statement. Incorrect answers will be marked as such as long as the staff
      believes the intention of the problem statement was clear.Talking to a staff member does not take away thestudent's
      responsibilityto submit a correct answer. The staff will not accept
      incorrect answers due to a claim that some staff member said it was acceptable.
      Students sometimes misunderstand what TAs are trying to say, and in any case,
      it remains the students responsibility to make sure their understanding of the
      problem statements matches up with the plain meaning of the instructions given
      in the assignment or class.Course GradesOverall scores for the course will be determined entirely from Homework
  grades.Homework assignments will not be weighted equally because they are of
  different length and sophistication. Later assignments will generally be
  weighted more heavily because they are more involved. In particular, we expect
  the individual assignments to have the following weights in the overall
  grade:8.0% eachHW from Weeks 1–213.5% eachHW from Weeks 3–716.5%Final HWThat said, we may need to adjust the weights if any assignments turn out to
  be much more difficult or easier than expected.Overall percentage scores will be translated into course grades as described
  in the following table:96.5%4.084.0%3.471.5%2.894.5%3.982.0%3.369.5%2.792.5%3.880.0%3.267.5%2.690.5%3.778.0%3.165.0%2.588.5%3.675.5%3.063.0%2.486.0%3.573.5%2.961.0%2.3Grades for scores below 60% will be determined by the instructor on a
  case-by-case basis. (In particular, I reserve the right topassstudents whose percentages would fall below 2.0 if the above table is
  continued.)The median grade is expected to be about 90% on the homework assignments.
  That would translate into an overall percentage score of 87%, using the
  tentative weights in the first table above. Per the second table, that
  translates to a 3.5 grade as it is above 86.0% and below 88.5%.Advice For StudentsStart assignments early. Aim to complete them theday beforethey are due.Assignments are often more difficult than expected, and
      students should also to leave time to make and correct mistakes.Prefer the message board to office hours.Office hours get very
      busy, especially in the last 48 hours before assignments are due. (Yet another
      reason to start early is so that students can attend office hours that are less
      busy.) Even just before assignments are due, however, questions on the Message
      Board are usually answered within a short period of time.Do not skip class to work on homework, not even late in the
      quarter when students are more tired and busy. Doing so often seems like it
      will save time in the short run, but it will cost time in the long run.Think about which lecture material applies to that homework
        problem.As described above, each assignment is intended to apply ideas
      from lecture, so if it does not seem that any lectures apply to a given
      problem, it is nearly certain that the student did not understand some part of
      some lecture.Focus on understanding, not on getting points.A student's
      understanding of the material, not the points they received, is what will get
      them a job and ensure a successful career as a programmer.
Ensuring Correctness
Testing
Reasoning about Functional Programs
Reasoning about Imperative Programs
Debugging
Client and Server Applications
Design Patterns