General description
Cryptography provides important tools for ensuring the confidentiality and integrity of sensitive digital data. This course covers the design and application of important cryptographic objects, including basic cryptographic tools, such as encryption, message authentication, and digital signatures, as well as advanced cryptographic objects and protocols, such as zero-knowledge proofs, secure multi-party computation, and fully homomorphic encryption. For each cryptographic object, we formalize its security goal, show schemes that achieve the desired security, and study security attacks or security proofs that establish the insecurity or security of the scheme at hand.

Through this course, we aim to give an overview of the discipline of cryptography, the proper usage and application of important cryptographic tools, and methodologies that modern cryptography offers for developing cryptographic solutions to natural security problems.
Pre-req:CSE 312 and CSE 332. The class will be self-contained. But students are expected to be ready to understand mathematical definitions and proofs, and write simple ones. Exposure to basic probability / algebra / number theory, and theory of computing is also expected. (Contact the instructor if in doubt.)
ResourcesThere is no mandatory
	    textbook. Slides and reading materials will be posted throughout the class. However, the following are good references about basic cryptography. (Be aware that different textbooks make very different notational choices to explain the same concepts.)R. Pass and
	        a. shelat.A
	    Course in Cryptography(undergraduate level, focusing on theory)M. Rosulek.The Joy of Cryptography(undergraduate level, broader scope)O. Goldreich.The
	  Foundations of Cryptography(a thorough and formal textbook on foundations.)J. Katz and
	            Y. Lindell.Introduction
		      to Modern Cryptography(a textbook, graduate levelmore advanced)D. Boneh and
		          V. ShoupA Graduate Course in Applied Cryptography(a
		          textbook, graduate level)M. Bellare and P. Rogaway's lecture
			        notes.Introduction
			          to Modern Cryptography(focus on practice-oriented provable security)A good
	    overview on secure multi-party computation (from an
	    applier perspective) is available in
	    thistextbook(available for free!)