Course description
PrerequisitesCSE 331CSE 332Course formatThe class meets three times a week for lectures (Monday, Wednesday and Friday). All class meetings are in-person. Additionally, individual groups meet twice a week during section for team and project meetings (Tuesday and Thursday). The Tuesday and Thursday meetings are required. Classroom material is enhanced
 with assigned readings and in-class exercises. A major component of the course is teamwork on agroup project. Individual contributions include exercises, retrospectives, an exam, and participation.GradingGrades will be based on the following:60%: Group project milestone deliverables15%: Assignments and in-class exercises15%: Exam10%: ParticipationGeneral information about grading at the University of Washington is available as part of theUniversity of Washington Student Guide.PoliciesLate PolicyAssignments must be submitted on Canvas by the due date and time. Unless otherwise noted, all times are given in PDT (Pacific Time). The submission site remains open for 24 hours after the deadline. Assignments submitted within 24 hours after the deadline will incur a 20% penalty. Assignments will not be accepted beyond 24 hours after the deadline.Academic IntegrityExcept for clearly labeled group submissions, all assignments and projects in the course are to be done by you and you alone. Violation will result in an immediate F grade and possible initiation of formal procedures. We use automated techniques and manual checks to correlate submissions.

At the same time, we encourage students to help each other learn the course material. As in most courses, there is a boundary separating these two situations. You are allowed to consult with other students in the current class to help you understand the material or homework/project requirements (i.e., the problem definition). However, you may not collaborate in any way when constructing your solution: the solution to an individual homework/project must be prepared by you working alone. In particular, you are not allowed to collaboratively work out a detailed solution to the extent that your submissions are identifiably similar.

If you have any questions as to what constitutes unacceptable collaboration, please talk to the course professor right away. You are expected to exercise reasonable precautions in protecting your own work.

Please refer to the following website for additional information:https://www.cs.washington.edu/academics/misconduct.Course CommunicationTo ensure the security of your personal information, all communication related to this course should be conducted through either the course LMS (Canvas or EdStem Platform) or via your UW or CSE-issued email address. Personal email addresses should not be used for course-related correspondence.AccommodationsIf you require any special services or accommodations during a course please make sure to inform us within the first week of that course. This will give us time to plan accordingly to ensure that you get the help and support you need.  Please refer to the following website for additional information on disabilty accommodations:http://depts.washington.edu/uwdrs/, and the following website for additional information on religious accommodations:https://registrar.washington.edu/staffandfaculty/religious-accommodations-policy/.Sexual HarrassmentUniversity policy prohibits all forms of sexual harassment. If you feel you have been a victim of sexual harassment or if you feel you have been discriminated against, you may speak with your instructor, teaching assistant, the chair of the department, or you can file a complaint with the UW Ombudsman's Office for Sexual Harassment. Their office is located at 339 HUB, (206)543-6028. 
Please see additional resources athttp://www.washington.edu/about/ombudsman/role.html.