Course Overview

Course Description
This course provides an introduction to forms of contribution in several major areas of research in Human-Computer Interaction.
Course activities are based in a combination of readings, active discussion and reflection on readings, and a self-defined group project.
Across all of these, the course considers HCI research in terms of:
Contribution: what knowledge is gained through research activities.
Method: how research activities are structured to demonstrate contributions.
Framing: why contributions are valued,
through motivation, language, theory, or understanding that can contextualize activities and contributions.
Course readings emphasize a combination of historic framing papers and more recent contributions.
Discussion and reflection emphasize consideration of readings in terms of their contributions,
methods applied in those contributions, and framings of those contributions.
The group project asks students to extend consideration of contributions, methods, and framings to their own activities.
The combination of course activities is therefore intended to
help students examine what the HCI research community considers a contribution across a variety of contexts,
thus helping prepare students to understand and make meaningful contributions in these and other areas of HCI research.
This course is explicitly not focused on iterative design methods or associated theory commonly emphasized in HCI practice.
We do not assume a strong background in HCI (i.e., there is no undergraduate HCI prerequisite),
but students seeking an introduction to effective design or an iterative design process will be better served by CSE 440.

Learning Objectives
Be able to differentiate forms of contribution in HCI research.
Be able to describe prior fundamental results that frame areas of HCI research.
Be able to articulate new contributions relative to such framings of areas of HCI research.
Be able to consider, evaluate, and apply common HCI research methods.